[Music]
there's been a lot of talk about black
holes lately since Katherine Bowman
figured out how to take a picture of one
after seeing the image I realized I
didn't actually know that much about
them so instead of working today I went
down my own black hole of watching a
bunch of science videos don't tell my
boss and I got this thought what would
happen if a black hole came into our
solar system so I did what most people
do when some random question pops up in
their brain I took through the internet
to find the answer and oh boy did I
learn some things our solar system is
made up of eight planets hundreds of
natural satellites like moons thousands
of asteroids and billions of comets
this beautiful space cocktail is
constantly moving around our Sun but it
could all be torn apart at just one
stray black hole this sided to drop by a
black hole isn't likely going to disturb
the Peace of our planet any time soon
and even though the closest black hole
to our solar system is 10 to 13 times
the mass of our Sun it's located 3,000
light years away so we know way in
advance if it ever decided to start
moving closer but let's pretend that
some other black hole's decided to take
a shortcut through our solar system
first I have a confession to make before
I did all this research I thought black
holes were like just giant space holes
turns out that they're actually huge
amounts of matter crammed into a teeny
tiny space
it'd be like squeezing the entire mass
of our Sun into Manhattan as a result
they have an extremely strong
gravitational pull
in fact it's so powerful that even light
can't escape once a hole gets its hands
on it I also thought that all black
holes were basically the same a big fat
star collapses then boom black hole
those ones are called stellar-mass black
holes but there are also mega monsters
called super massive black holes those
ones can be found churning slowly at the
Centers of
they gather tremendous amounts of gas
and star dust around them making them
expand to sizes our simple human minds
would find unfathomable now the chances
of us getting close to a supermassive
black hole are infinitesimal but if our
galaxy the Milky Way decided to
rearrange itself putting us a few dozen
light years away from the center where a
supermassive black hole lives instead of
26,000 light years away
we'd be doomed you see all those planets
stars comets and space debris circling
around the monster would come flying
into our solar system crashing into
everything and making a big mess and
whatever's left of our little family of
planets would get swept up into the
current of the gravitational pull and
circle around the black hole until the
end of time but what about the
stellar-mass black hole they may be way
smaller than those monster is
supermassive black holes but there's a
lot more of them in the universe they
appear when stars run out of their star
fuel and basically fall into themselves
this only happens if a star is big
enough like three to ten times bigger
than our Sun it'll keep compressing and
compressing until voila a baby
stellar-mass black hole is born ah
it may be baby in size but these puppies
are still 20 times heavier than the Sun
so let's say unknown to us a stellar
mass black hole is nearing the outskirts
of our solar system right now first to
feel its effects would be the Oort cloud
named after Dutch astronomer Jan Oort
this bubble of icy space debris that
surrounds the outermost rim of our solar
system 100,000 times further out than we
are from the Sun will be popped by the
gravitational pull of the black hole as
a result ice-cold comets from this area
gets sent toward earth and other planets
of our solar system and we keep living
our lives like nothing is wrong
[Music]
here's the thing I find most terrifying
we wouldn't notice the black hole until
it's too late the only detail that could
give away the approaching black hole is
a slight blurring of distant stars due
to the holes gravitational lensing
effect the gravitational field of a
black hole is so powerful it actually
bends light rays trying to pass it we
may miss that cue but we'll definitely
notice when the black hole starts
pulling layers from the gas planets such
as Neptune Jupiter or Saturn it'll
create such a huge superhot cloud of
dust and gas around itself that people
of earth couldn't help but notice it
seems unfair that's something that's
small the tiniest black holes can be
only 15 miles in diameter can consume
things thousands of times bigger but
before it eats any of our solar system
it'll tear it all apart first you see
our planets are held in orbit by our
Sun's gravity as the gravitational pull
of the black hole approaches each planet
it'll play tug-of-war with our Sun
ripping them all to pieces
as soon as the black hole reaches the
asteroid belt between Jupiter and Mars
we'll start to feel its full super
volcanoes will go off devastating
earthquakes will shake the ground and
everything will crumble into dust and
debris
Thanos style also contrary to what I
used to believe black holes don't suck
stuff in either suction can only be
caused when something is getting pulled
into the vacuum of space and a black
hole is the opposite of space so don't
worry if we ever got close enough to one
we never get sucked in we'd simply just
fall in well that's comforting to know
but it's not a drop kind of fall black
holes like to make a show out of it
before disappearing into the abyss
anything that falls into the
gravitational pull of a black hole will
go through a process called
spaghettification I know I giggled when
I heard the word for the first time -
but it's no laughing matter
basically if any
thing gets too close to a black hole
before it falls in it gets stretched out
like a spaghetti noodle due to the holes
incredible gravity so yeah there's some
food for thought
yum yum but don't worry about all this
spaghetti talk according to scientific
estimations the odds of a black hole
coming across our solar system much less
munching on our planet are lower than
the chance of winning the lottery ten
times in a row in numbers that's one in
a trillion that's a relief I have to say
black holes are really cool the more I
learn about them the more curious I get
like what would happen if two
supermassive black holes collided but
they create a mega SuperDuper massive
black hole like two monster hurricanes
colliding and merging together to create
the most epic hurricane but in space it
turns out that almost all galaxies in
the universe have their own supermassive
black holes in the center of them in
some of these galaxies the black holes
can be billions of times more massive
than our Sun now imagine what would
happen when two galaxies became one
their black holes would have to somehow
agree to cohabitate and interact like
civilized
well holes I guess but scientists
believe that in the event two
supermassive black holes come in contact
either by spiraling inward and
eventually touching or by direct
collision it wouldn't be a peaceful
merge instead because the forces are so
great one of the black holes would get
kicked away at an incredible speed
the most powerful kick can happen if the
two black holes have been rotating in
opposite directions it would be like two
disks spitting incredibly fast coming
together the weaker of the two black
holes we get hurled out of the newly
formed galaxy to never be heard from
again
and the winning black hole will get
rewarded with a huge amount of energy
making the clouds of dust and gas
surrounding it blaze for thousands of
years
now that's what I call Star Wars
sorry what's your biggest what-if
question that distracts you from work or
keeps you up at night let me know in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share with a friend but hey don't go
anywhere just yet we have over 2000 cool
videos for you to check out all you have
to do is pick the left or right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life